what is the escaping strings?

these means adding a special characters called escape characters
we may use them for the quotations inside a string

We have only 5special characters
they are "",'',/t,/n,//

2. comparing strings
to compare the strings we use the arithematic  operator such as ==,===,!== and many others

3.Boolean Variable
the Boolean variable is a variable that takes either true or false

4.learn the difference between null ,nan and undefined
nan means not a number this is 
undefined this is the error we get because a variable is not defined or declared;
null is the error we get when we assign our value to empty string;

5. We have 2 types of javascript datatype

the first one is primitive dataype and non-primitive 

 1. the primitive dataype is the one that can not be changed after it was created.

 it is divided into 7 
 string,null,numbers,boolean, undefined, 
 BigInt(ES11) which is used to create large integer numbers greater than the normal range of the numbers,
 Symbols(ES7)  which is used to create the unique  ids

 The non-primitive datatypes are the ones that are reference to the memory location
 they are objects, arrays, functions and the special notes which are used to check the type of a number

CONDITIONALS

when we are using the if statement the else need the if ,if not then you are gonna get the sysnthax error

the double equal compares the type only but the triple equal compares only the types and the values
 
 the difference between the advanced conditionals and the normal consitionals the normal conditions are the one with if statements and else while the advanced one include
switch, terinaty operator,nested conditions like they combine multiple conditions together.

the truthy and falsy values we have 7 falsy values
0,NaN,undefined,null,-0,false,"" and the other that are remaining are the truthy values

LOOPSS
we have like 5 loops the for loop,while,do while,for of, and for in. these are the normal for loops.

we also have the advanced loops they are the  forEach(), map(), filter(), and reduce() for arrays.

while loop
the loops are in 3 parts 
when to start, what to do, then the increment like how to get to get the next the next item.

THE GOLDEN RULE WHEN WE ARE USING THE LOOPSS
if you are using like and or inside the loop first check them before anything else then go to the next.

for loop
for(start;stop;step){
//condition
}
the nested loop is the loop inside another loop
here is the sysnthax
for(
  //condition
){
  for(){
   //condition 
  }
}

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN FOR IN AND FOR OF

FOR IN
The purpose of the for in is to loop throught the keys (property names),and the values
of an object.
we use the for in in the objects and the arrays

for (let key in object) {
    // use key here
}

FOR OF
we use the for of when we want to get items one by one
it is the simple way we can use when we want to display the items in cleanest way

for (let element of iterable) {
    // use element here
}

FUNCTIONS 
 these are block of code aimed to perform a specific task

we have the parametwes and the arguments parameters are the variables and the arguments are the ctual values to the placeholders.

RETURN and THE CONSOLE

when we are using the console it doesnt store naything but when we use the return it stores everyhting
using the console is like speaking out loud without keeping anything but using the reutn is like givig someone letter to be used later
so better use the reutn ratherr than the console,
return also let us use the values for the program use the return when we are dealing with keeping the values and make the reusable variable;

THE WAY OF USING THE REVERSE


FUNCTION METHODS


SCOPE IN FUNCTIONS
where in your code you can access a variable

we have 3 scopes of variables

GLOBAL
a variable out of a function can be accessed anywhere in the program.

LOCAL
a variable inside of function can be used inside of function.

Block scope(ES6: let and const)
variable declared inside the culrly braces with the let and const.


NESTED scopes

functions inside functions can use the variables from the outer scopes
NB// the inner function can access the outer functions not the opposite on the  nested scopes


SHADOWING IN JS

shadowing happens when you create a variable name in an inner scope(like a block,function, or loop) that has same name as a variable in the outer scope.
thinking it like standing in someone's shadow.

in shadowing the js will use the inner variable not the outer variable
hiding in shadowing means while you are inside the scope the js use the inner variable not the outer one
//NB: when we make the variable to var we no longer used it again

Shadowing in functions → means you can reuse a variable name inside a function without destroying the one outside.

HOISTING 
this means moving the declaration to the top of the scope before code runs
the hoisting takes the variable at the top not the assignment

 when we make like the hoisting of the function the js itself make it the normal way like making the reverse then it give out the output.
 hoisting with the let and const give us the error
 let and const are hoisted too, but they live in something called the Temporal Dead Zone (TDZ) until the line they are declared.

 var → hoisted, set to undefined.

let & const → hoisted, but “locked” in TDZ until declaration.

Functions → hoisted fully (safe to call before writing them).
Hoisting is just how JavaScript works internally.
It always happens behind the scenes when JS prepares your code before running it.
Always declare your variables at the top of their scope (block or function).

Don’t write code that relies on hoisting, except for functions it’s common and safe

✅ So the meaning is:

Hoisting is not a feature you call, it’s a rule of how JS reads your code.

Its role is to make variables/functions exist in memory before code runs.

It mostly helps if you declare things later but want to use them earlier (especially functions).

FUNCTION EXPRESSION
when a function is decalred inside the variable
this refers to passing variable directly to function

in the real life application

1.callbacks
setTimeout(function(){
  console.log("Runs after 2 seconds")
,2000});

2.Event listeners

buttons.addEventListener("Click",function({
  console.log("Button Clicked)
}))

3.function programming

const numbers =[1,2,3];
const double=number.map(function(n){
  return n*2;
});

4.Returning Functions(closures)
Function makeMultiplier(x){
  return function(y){
    return x*y;
  }

  }  
  const double=makeMultiplier(2)

console.log(double(5));

only the variable in the function expression are hoisted not the whole function when it hoisted it couse the error
// ❌ Error: Cannot access 'sayHi' before initialization

FUNCTION callbacks

function passed inside another as a parameter is called inside that function is called a callback function
function that you pass as an argument to another function and gets called inside that function.

why do we use the call backs
to run a given condition after something else happens like to fetsch dat from a server

INLINE FUNCTION EXPRESSION

An inline function is when you write the function directly inside the call, without naming it.
is function you define inside a variable instead of giveing it a name
WHY DO WE USE ANONYMOUS INLINE FUNCTION?



ARRAYS
is special stype of an object in js that stire data of orderded values
the values can be numbers, strings functions even other arrays(nested arrays)

METHODS 
A method in JavaScript is simply a function that belongs to an object.

called using:

objectname.methodname();
ex:person.sayHello();
in simple words method is a function inside an object.

the js methods are divided into parts

1, String methods
2, Arrays methods
3, Number methods
4, Objects methods
5, Global /Utillity methods





what are Template Literals
these are the strings wrapped in backsticks

they allow:
1.interapolation:embending variables direactly with ${}.
2.Multiline strings: no need for \n
3.expressions inside strings:you can do even maths or call functions.

slice and  substring 
the indexOf("substring")take the first index of the characters
but the lastIndexOf("substring") take the last index of the substring

the difference between both are methods that kinda work the same but the slice also works with the negative but the substring don't

 METHODS in JS
 the metods are divided into 5 categories
 1,string methods
 2,arrays methods
 3,numbers methods
 4,objects methods
 5,arrays methods


1.String methods
these are used that are mainly used on the strings only
callthe variable.length:it is used to count the numbers of the characters
.toUpperCase():conevert to uppercase
.toLowerCase():used to convert to toLowerCase
.charAt(index):used to get the character at agiven index
.includes(substring):this is used to check if the substring is included in a given string and it return the boolean t ot false
.indexOf(substring):First occurence index of the substring
.lastIndexOf(sunstring):last occurence of a substring
.slice(start,end):start at the index that you have said and end at before the index that you have said.
.slice(4)//on the slice when they have said only the one digit that is to mean that is where that you are gonna start and end to the last digit
.split(""):then when it is like this it take every single character
.split( ):when there is no space in a string it take it as one string
.split(" "): when its  splits(make the stop to create the array) at the space.
.substring(start, end):work the same as the slice but the small difference is the substring can work with also the negative numbers but this cant.
.replace(search, replace):this take the first value of the character it want and replace it with another one
.trim():is used to remove spaces at the start and the end.


Numbers methods

.toFixed(n):changes the numbers to strings with the n decimals
.toString:changes the numbers to string
Number.isInteger(value):this is used to check if a given number is an integer
parseInt(string):convert string to an integer
parseFloat(string):convert string to float

when we are dealing with the parseInt it read our strings from the left to right that is whay when you make something like this "abc123" tou will get the error but when you make something like this "123abc" then you are not to get any error
:: when it finds something invalid like a,b,c it stops from there and returns what it has so far so that is when if the first character is invalid then is gonna return NAN

Array methods
.push:is used to push the array to the last index but also
//to add something at the end of an array we use the .length method
console.log(rainbow.splice(rainboow.length,0,"purple"));
.pop:is used to remove the first element of the array;
.shift:
.unshift:to add an element at first index of an array
.indexOf:is used to find the index of an array.
.includes:is used to check if the given element or character or substring exist in the array
.slice:is used to give elements beyween a given range the first is included and the other is excluded
.splice:it return the removed items not the items to be removed.
fist point the index of an elements to be removed then starting from that index how many elemnts to be removed then what to replace or what are we gonna use to modify our array.
.concat:is used to join the array substring with the other like you have an array and then you wanna add some elemnts you can use the concat then all they can beocme one
.join:used when we want to join the the array to make one string usig whatever the separator depending on your choices it can be like .,-,|;

NB:this also are not the string but quite important to know

for of:in js for of means the loop that lets you go through the values inside something that is iterable this can be strings, arrays , maps,sets and more
it only takes the propersty of an object one by one

for in:is used to loop through the indexes of the loops then print out the indexes of the array.

.forEach:is used to give the index,element and the full array depned on what you want
